.TH POSTINOD 8 "2026-05-16" "postinod 0.12.3" "postino daemon"
.SH NAME
postinod \- HTTP daemon: SCIM 2.0 + Zitadel event sink for postino
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B postinod
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B postinod
exposes two HTTP surfaces against the PostfixAdmin SQL schema:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B /scim/v2/*
\- generic SCIM 2.0 endpoints, JWT-bearer-gated. Audience:
scim-cli, custom scripts, audit/inventory tooling.
Users, Aliases (POST/PATCH/DELETE), read-only Domains.
.IP \(bu 2
.B /zitadel/events
\- HMAC-signed event sink invoked by Zitadel Actions. The only
Zitadel-driven path \(em postino does
.B not
push identity into Zitadel.
.RE
.PP
Identity backend selection (\fBlocal\fR, \fBnoauth\fR, \fBhybrid\fR)
is enforced at startup and matches the
.BR postino (1)
configuration.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B POSTINOD_ZITADEL_HMAC_SECRET
Required, 32-byte minimum, env-only (never read from TOML).
Guards the
.B /zitadel/events
endpoint. SCIM authentication uses JWT/JWKS; HMAC is Zitadel-events-only.
.TP
.B POSTINOD_SCIM_MAX_TOKEN_AGE_SECONDS
JWT \fBiat\fR-anchored max age. Default: 3600.
.TP
.B POSTINO_POSTFIX_SQL_DIR
Path to the directory holding postfix's
.B sql-virtual_*.cf
files. postinod (and
.BR postino (1))
parse those files for the database
DSN \(em postfix stays the single source of truth for DB credentials.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/local/etc/postino/postino.toml
Shared config with the CLI.
.TP
.B /lib/systemd/system/postinod.service
systemd unit shipped by the
.B il-postino
package (Debian).
.TP
.B /usr/local/etc/rc.d/postinod
rc(8) script shipped by the
.B il-postino
FreeBSD package.
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on clean shutdown. Non-zero on startup failure (missing secrets,
DB unreachable, schema-version mismatch).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR postino (1),
.BR postfix (1),
.BR dovecot (1),
.BR systemd.service (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Marcello Barnaba <vjt@openssl.it>
